
Goal: 

Getting an amateur radio Telegramm infrastructure that every 
ham operator can use easily without special infrastructure. 

That means that the delivery of a message is usually done via 
radio by one operator talking to another operator, but the dirstibution 
is done by a set of servers that are interconnected. 

When an operator talks to another operator, he can easily check for 
messages on one of the servers and transfer those messages to the remote 
operator. A remote operator can also address several telegrams to 
the local site.

So basically, to send and receive Telegrams, you don't need an account by 
yourself, but the Telegram operator needs one. You also need an account to 
set your Callsign Alias records.

If an operator wants to exchange Telegrams over the network he can call 
CQ QTC CQ QTC CQ QTC CQ QTC de CALL CALL CALL k

Basic thoughts: 

There are several servers, each server has its own signature. 
There are also sevreral message types that could be mapped directly 
to an SQL table. And back, so we can verify a stored signature later on. 
Which means we need a special Format, because yaml/json and XML are 
to flexible. 

Basicly one system is sending messages to the other system. Messages older 
than 100 Days will be ignored and can be deleted by the system. 

Basicly it is a Push-Push delivery, so if a Server gets a 
message/status/alias/younamit it pushes its data to all the 
connected severs, but only if the Data is new, if it is allready 
in the local database it has already passed the local system once.

There can be an automatic/semiautomatic server connection setup either 
as a protocol extension, or as a transport protocol, so basically really 
the message distribution is not defined here. It does not matter if you 
upload your Key on a website or automatically via a polling protocol. As 
long as the Server system itself thinks it is push-push operation. 

Any new system should get a full set of data records. But this initial 
compare can be triggered as well by hand.

Record deletion is done locally, but there is some data that helps 
you determining what records are going to be deleted. A Server 
Blocklist, and a Server Goodlist. Aliass removing can be issued as 
a special server message, if an alias was set wrong. 

Server Traffic should be in order to get a consistant database.  

Every server needs a key as well as a human readable identifier that 
should be an FQDN. The Transport protocol is not specified, to be more 
flexible on the integration side, UUCP is possible as well as a tcp 
connection. 

Because Amateur radio is desired to be public, no encryption can be made 
on any of the messages, signatures using the same algorythm, but they are 
designed to be verified and read by the public so those will fit into the 
"public" rule. This means the design of the protocol is in a way that Servers 
can be linked also by radio links, even if they are designed to be linked via 
Internet in the first place.

The Users are kept locally on each server, depending on the type of 
frontend they use. If an alias for a user exists the add of a user 
account should be denied.

There must be a user removal operation there for each user as well as an 
inactivity removal. This can also be used as a server ping. When a system 
detects that an alias is getting to old, it removes them. If the deletion 
comes to the originating system, the alias is readded. Aliasses should be 
refreshed periodically. 

Basically a user/callsign cann add or remove Aliasses. This is also one of the two 
delete messages that exists in the network. The other one is issued by the server 
itself for delivery approvals, for example if a user accidently approves a message 
to be delivered.


If an alias vanishes basicly nothing happens to the message, except that the 
automatic search correllation is missing.  So the Move from one server to 
another is in fact the removal of all aliasses on the old system and the 
addition of the new ones. 

A user can also query for messages, write messages to the board and announce 
a successfully delivery to the delivery table. 

A client/frontend can connect via an xmlrpc Interface, however the client 
must be authenticated via its public key, but there are several clients 
available that can operate in a different way, username/password for example. 
But those accounts can not be distributed, obviously.

There are Two times held for a message, the DateTime when a server receives 
the message and the time when the message was issued. The First time is not 
in the Signature scope obviously.

A local account can be rejected by any server. Or in other words the basic 
alias can be rejected if one account appers on two places at the same time. 
This means the account must be newly created. 

Enhancement News bulletins?!? Maybe. :) 

Storage Tables: 

- There are several tables: 

One for the Messages itself. 

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- MSG_DATE
- MSG_SERIAL
- FROM
- TO
- VIA
- MSG

Then is the Table where all transmitted entrys are made into: 

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- QSL_DATE
- QSL_SERIAL
- QSL_SERVER 
- MSG_DATE
- MSG_SERIAL
- VIA
- LOG_REFERENCE


To search for messages properly there should be an alias Table: 

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- CALL
- ALIAS

The exsistence of CALL at a server means that a user exists 
on the issuer system, as described above. Aliasses can only 
be administrated on this one system. 


There is a News Bulletin list where a call can be added to: 
Note: CALL can be any aliased call. 

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- CALL
- LISTNAME



User table, that one should not be exported. 
and it must not be that way. 

- CALL
- E_MAIL
- PASSWORD
- LAST_SEEN


Then are there Servers with their Keys: 
(E_MAIL is optional) 

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- URL
- NETWORK
- CALL
- LOC
- E_MAIL
- PUBLIC_KEY

The Neighbourhood table is propagated for Mapping reasons:

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- NEIGHBOR
- STATUS


There is a trust list: 

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- VIA


and a mistrust list

- RCVD_DATE
- SERVER
- SIGNATURE
- VIA



Basically this leads to the messages the servers are sending each other. 

Example: 

QTC_NET_TYPE: MESSAGE
QTC_NET_VERSION: 0.1
QTC_NET_ACTION: INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE
MSG_DATE: 2014-02-18
MSG_SERIAL: 1
MSG_SERVER: CA6THSLD
FROM: OE1SRC
TO: OE1XGB
VIA: OE1GIS
MSG: hallo gaensebluemchen, das ist ein telegramm uebers qtc net
SIGNATURE: uwz7628276dtsdt7wezqodhsutzer78zwerddg78e3z8zetr789wehr7dh98weuoujrd789zweorgfz4e78wighrf



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Important Traffic Q Groups:

QTC?			Do you habe Messages for me? 
QTC 3			I have 3 Messages for you
QTC NIL		There are no messaes for you 
QRU				Ther are no messages for you (I have nothing for you) 
QSG 2			I am ready, please transmit 2 telegrams at once
QSG				I am ready to receive all my messages. 
QSG n			please transmit n messages 
QSG N			I don't want to hear any message now (N is the letter N) 
QUA CALL	   Telegramm von CALL
QZA CALL	    Telegramm an CALL (important when you transmit Bulletins or Clubcalls)
QOZ				A Message itself maybe referred through a number
QTA				Cancel this message, I have already heard it. (needs QSK obviously)
QSL?			have you received everything (may collide with QSL Cards) 
QSL				Yes I have received everything (may collide with QSL Cards) 
=					STOP Sign, this means end of message, and/or Begin of message
.					End of sentence, like in reality
QSP?			Do you like to forward my telegrams via QTC Net?
QSP				I can forward your messages via QTC Net.  

A message must be able to be transmitted by the lowest available communication channel. 
So it can have up to 300 Characters. Allowed Characters are the standard morse characters 
everyone knows [a-z], [0-9], [/.,] and Space.

No Line Breaks, No Nothing.

With this it schould be possible to send a message across any imaginable Radio channel. 


TODO: 

A Perlish Subset of XMLRPC.... APSOX.....







Estimation of the Network Traffic: 

- 2800000 Number of Calls Worldwide
- 30 Amount of Days to Keep the Messages
- 300 Message Length


Disk Space, for a Server Database:
25200000000 B
24609375 KB
24032,59277 MB
23,46932888 GB


Estimated Traffic per Day:

840000000 B
820312,5 KB
801,0864258 MB
0,782310963 GB

Internet as server link is not a Problem. The connection can also
be done easily with a hamnet Link.

A 115,2 KBit UKW Link may be used at Maximum load, there are some
2 MBit Data link projects ongoing.

--------------------------------------------------------------

Directorys: 

There are two directory spaces, one for public access, this is the 
one where data can be downloaded from, ans one private directory where 
for example where incoming and bad QTC messages are stored. 

pub/
	out/       # all the processed good messages ready to got rsynced by others
	call/
		OE1SRC/ # one directory named like the call / exchanged with -
		.../
			# current operator_file 
			# directory signature file 
			pubkey/
			revoke/
			sent/
			archive/    # all messages to that call
			inbox/      # all the messages that are not delivered to that call
			qsprcvd/    # all qsps this user got
			trust/      # all the trust levels of this user 
		ALIAS -> CALL/ # alias directorys should be symlinked to have easy access on aliased calls.  

	lists/
		LISTNAME/      # one directory per list containing the operator files / -> - 	

in/               # inbound messages are synced into this directory
bad/              # all messages that have errors to be checked




